every speech must have a goal.
the goal must be well defined leaving little to the imagination.
the goal must also be something that gives a direction.
2 types of speeches:       Informative                                                     Persuasive
                     To give out information                                                 to persuade  
Goal:			to educate and be memorable. 		     to make the listener, do an action, change opinion, or reinforce.

when giving a speech it is important to form a speech informative.

capstone is a speech to persuade that you did a lot with the capstone.

every speech you give will have a goal.

you should want to see where you are going and have an end in mind.


Introduction 
	3 things that must happen in an introduction
	Grab Attention.
		you have 15-30s to give someone a reason to listen.
		it is very noticeable when you have not grabbed their attention.
		Question -> Retorical??? can be boring but it can be good. do it if it helps you get to a goal.
		Jokes??? Depends on the situations... figure out a if joke is funny. a bad joke is hard to comeback from.
 			know what your goal is. 
			to double check if your joke is funny just tell people that you trust and tell as many have you can.
		Statistic
		Short story
		Famous Quotes
		dont just check a box for an opener
	Say what you are going to say.
		Do it and do it well and it will be good.
		this is important to set expectations.
	Thesis Statement
		your goal put into words that matter and match the context of our speech.
Body
	made up of about 1-5 main ideas points that drive you to your goal.
	Main Point. whatever main topic you want to cover
		subPoints... made of concrete information data/facts/research and also of opinion. 
				it doesn't need to have both types but it can.
				they tend to have a mixture of both but an effective speech doesn't need to.
				the uniqueness of your opinion is very crucial to help you in your speech.
				research done mostly on the internet.

Conclusion
	must do 2 things
		restate main points
		top it off...
			end it in someway that is clean that ties everything together.

